Clarify three roles of consumers of the PMIx interface (#327)
pmix/pmix-standard: Chap_Introduction.tex

}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsection{PMIx Roles}

The role of a \ac{PMIx} process in the \ac{PMIx} universe is grouped into one of three categories based on how it operates in the \ac{PMIx} environment namely as a \emph{client}, \emph{server}, or \emph{tool}.

> As a result, there are three corresponding sets of initialization and finalization functions.

Author: ```suggestion
As a result, there are three corresponding sets of initialization and finalization functions and three groupings of \acp{API}.
```

> If a process initializes as either a \emph{server} or a \emph{tool} that process may also access all of the \emph{client} \acp{API}.

Author: ```suggestion
If a process initializes as either a \emph{server} or a \emph{tool} that process is also considered a \emph{client}.
```

> A process operating as a \refterm{client} is started (directly or indirectly, for example, by an intermediate script) by the \ac{RM} and is connected to the \ac{PMIx} server instance within that \ac{RM} when the client calls the client \ac{PMIx} initialization routine.

Author: ```suggestion
A process operating as a \refterm{client} is started directly or indirectly (for example, by an intermediate script) by the \ac{RM} and is connected to the \ac{PMIx} server instance within that \ac{RM} when the client calls the client \ac{PMIx} initialization routine.
```

A process operating as a \declareterm{server} is responsible for starting client processes and coordinating with other server and tool processes in the same \ac{PMIx} universe.
Often processes operating as a \emph{server} are part of the \acf{RM} infrastructure.

> A process operating as a \declareterm{tool} will connect to a \ac{PMIx} \emph{server} to interact with the processes in the \ac{PMIx} universe.

Author: ```suggestion
A process operating as a \declareterm{tool} is started independently (e.g., via fork/exec) or by the \ac{RM} and will connect to a \ac{PMIx} \emph{server} to interact with the processes in the \ac{PMIx} universe.
```

An example of a \emph{tool} process is a parallel debugger that will connect to the server to assist with attaching to a set of client processes.

\ac{PMIx} serves as a conduit between processes acting in these three different roles.

> As such, an \ac{API} is often described in how it interacts with processes operating in other roles in the \ac{PMIx} universe.

Author: Good catch. I just pushed with that fix.

A \ac{PMIx} implementation that supports all three sets of the \ac{API} role groupings is said to be \emph{fully \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
These \emph{fully \ac{PMIx} standard compliant} implementations have the advantage of being able to support a broad set of \ac{PMIx} consumers in the different roles.

Alternatively, a \ac{PMIx} implementation may choose to support fewer than all three sets of the \ac{API} role groupings.
A \ac{PMIx} implementation that supports only the \emph{client} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-only \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
Similarly, a \ac{PMIx} implementation that only supports the \emph{client} and \emph{tool} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-and-tool-only \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
Finally, a \ac{PMIx} implementation that only supports the \emph{client} and \emph{server} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-and-server-only \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.

Note that it would not make sense for an implementation to exclude the \emph{client} interfaces from their implementation since they are also used by the \emph{server} and \emph{tool} roles.

> \adviceimplend

Author: Invert the previous 3 paragraphs. Add "minimal set of the required functionality for PMIx compliance is the client interfaces". From there you can add 'tool' or 'server'. If you have all three then you are `full-role compliant`

Split the advice into a separate commit from the normative text.

Author: Fixed in latest push.

As such, an \ac{API} is often described by how it interacts with processes operating in other roles in the \ac{PMIx} universe.

\adviceimplstart
A \ac{PMIx} implementation may support all or a subset of the \ac{API} role groupings defined in the standard.
A common nomenclature is defined here to aid in identifying levels of conformance of an implementation.

Note that it would not make sense for an implementation to exclude the \emph{client} interfaces from their implementation since they are also used by the \emph{server} and \emph{tool} roles.
Therefore the \emph{client} interfaces represent the minimal set of required functionality for \ac{PMIx} compliance.

A \ac{PMIx} implementation that supports only the \emph{client} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-role \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
Similarly, a \ac{PMIx} implementation that only supports the \emph{client} and \emph{tool} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-role and tool-role \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
Finally, a \ac{PMIx} implementation that only supports the \emph{client} and \emph{server} \acp{API} is said to be \emph{client-role and server-role \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.

> A \ac{PMIx} implementation that supports all three sets of the \ac{API} role groupings is said to be \emph{all-role \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.

Author: ```suggestion
A \ac{PMIx} implementation that supports all three sets of the \ac{API} role groupings is said to be \emph{client-role, server-role, and tool-role \ac{PMIx} standard compliant}.
```
